hello this is chef john from food wishes
comm with macaroni and cheese the
classic thomas jefferson style version
so i'm gonna show you the basic steps to
make macaroni cheese and then i'm going
to show you in the middle of the video
how to alter the recipe depending on how
cheesy you want this to be alright so
all these traditional recipes start with
a roux we're going to melt some butter
in a saucepan on medium heat and when it
sings listen to this do that
when the butter sings when you hear it
start to foam and bubble you're going to
add your flour and it's going to make a
very light Roux a very light-colored and
light texture grew you're going to cook
that on medium for about three or four
minutes just to cook out the starch and
the flour I'm going to add some thyme
some cayenne some white pepper into the
roux now why didn't I just add that to
the finished cream sauce because I
vaguely remember in culinary school
there's some spices and herb flavors
that are oil soluble and they come out
better in oil than just in liquid
environment so and I could be you know
totally dreaming alright so I'm going to
cook that for another minute and then
pour in a cup of milk whisk it in really
quickly make sure the milk is cold then
you won't have lumps hot Roux cold milk
no lumps then I might add two more cups
of milk and that is going to be your
basic white sauce now we're going to
bring that up to a simmer on medium heat
and while it's coming up to simmer I'm
going to grate in some fresh nutmeg get
yourself a fresh nut of nutmeg and grate
it yourself
thousand times better but if you don't
put in the cheap powdered stuff I'm
going to put a couple drips which is
different than drops of Worcestershire
sauce and forget about this salt to
taste I'm done with salt to taste put in
a teaspoon all right do not question it
you'll see when that comes to a simmer
it thickens up we're going to let that
simmer on medium low for about eight
minutes in the meantime we're going to
grate your cheese I have three cups of
mixed cheeses I'm using a cheddar Gouda
and Gris air mixture which is quite
fantastic turn off the heat and add your
cheese in a couple additions saving
about 3/4 of a cup for the top alright
now I had these cheeses left over but
for you I think you should use all
cheddar that's what Thomas Jefferson
used for
man cheddar but to any cheese is your
favorite cheese's at work I think a
sharp cheddar cheese really is the best
but hey that's just me
and with the heat off that's just going
to melt in there and it's going to make
this beautiful creamy cheesy sauce so
while our cheese is melted in and the
last thing here I'm going to add a
teaspoon of Dijon mustard
I don't like dry mustard alright so now
let's talk pasta we're going to slow
things down here because I got to talk
to you people
most of these recipes for this amount of
cheese sauce are going to call for eight
ounces of pasta I'm going to use a whole
box which is one pound which makes a
very still delicious version but not as
cheesy not as creamy much lighter much
lower fat if you want to split the
difference you put in 12 ounces so
adjusting the amount of pasta you can
really alter this recipe to your
personal taste
once you decide make sure the pasta is
well drained dump it in the casserole
dish no need to butter it don't believe
the hype it's not going to stick let my
stick a little bit it's okay you scrape
it out you're going to pour in your
cheese sauce distribute it then you're
going to sprinkle over the rest of the
cheese then the secret to a perfect
macaroni and cheese crust you only want
a half a cup of bread crumbs and you
want the Japanese panko bread crumbs you
too can find them yes they're in the
store yes don't argue they're in the
Asian section of your grocery store then
just a tablespoon of butter mix it up
put it on top that's going to adhere to
that layer of cheese on top and you're
going to get the best crust ever you're
going to put that in a 400 degree oven
that's kind of hot I know but I want the
top to caramelize and Brown I mean I'm
not trying to cook the inside I don't
know why you would cook this for like an
hour at you know 350 or a lower
temperature I'm just trying to brown the
top everything else is cooked
if 400 that took me about 20 minutes
just watch it when it's brown take it
out and you're done perfectly crisp
crust all right I'm going to let this
cool just a little and then I'm going to
dish it out and it is truly amazing now
see the holes in the pasta see the hole
of there on the left the elbow for the
one-pound package of pasta those are not
going to be filled with cheese sauce the
pasta is going to be very nice very
tasty very cheesy but it's not going to
be like running with cheese sauce
if you use the 8 ounces of pasta version
you will have a lot more cheese sauce
okay so it's up to you Thomas Jefferson
the inventor of macaroni cheese also the
author of the Declaration of
Independence he and our founding fathers
fought for our right to put in as much
or as little macaroni in our macaroni
and cheese as we damn well please
so never forget the principles on which
this country was founded and that's it
macaroni cheese how easy was that all
right go to the site get the ingredients
and as always enjoy